Lillian doesn't exist in this world anymore.
Am I right?
Yeah, that's right.
But she lives on forever, if only in
this song you brought back to life.
I can only promise you one thing.
I'll protect this one last song for you,
with the power of science.
I need to protect this record
with my life in order to trick
Tsukasa's troops and bring them to our side.
And you want to preserve the
song, even if it kills you.
We're on the same team.
All right.
We have a deal.
I'll cooperate with your plan!
Thank you, Nikki-san!
We've done it! Finally!
We finally have an ally
in the Tsukasa Empire!
Nikki the Guard has joined the party!!
Senku, Gen, your grand scheme to convert
the Tsukasa Army using the
diva's voice isn't a bad one.
It's not bad...
But our crucial fake
Lilian has an accuracy...
of 55%!
You're so strict!
Gotta take the input of a megafan seriously.
But you can leave it to me.
I'll brush you up so no one
can tell the difference.
That sounds fantastic.
Oh, God, she's going to be Spartan.
Now that I'm on your side,
you can rest easy on that point.
But there's just one big problem.
I'm sure you guys know how strong Tsukasa is.
But it's not just him.
The people around him are formidable, as well.
I suppose he's got some grandiose
vision for the world.
He's been gathering capable
people from all over.
Sure, not all of them worship Tsukasa,
but once they get a taste of Tsukasa's
might and charisma, they all nod yes.
His right-arm and left-arm men—
although he definitely doesn't
consider them such—
are the ones he considers
his most capable allies.
You've already met one of them.
Hyoga.
Yeah.
The problem is the other man.
The greatest impediment to our plan...
would be Ukyo.
Full Assault
Ukyo-kun.
The guy with the bow and arrow.
Yeah.
If we keep playing the same record repeatedly,
Ukyo will eventually see through it.
Rather, he'll hear through it.
If he were to hear it, I'm not sure it
would fool him, even over the phone.
I see.
We can't play the same song over and over.
Then we just have to not
play it over and over!
You're an optimistic simpleton,
aren't you, Taiju?
I like that about you.
That's true, though.
Instead of catching people one by one,
maybe we should get everyone
while Ukyo-kun's not watching.
That might work.
Ukyo?
He was a sonar operator on a submarine.
He's got insanely good hearing.
That's why Tsukasa-chan woke him up.
Chrome-chan and Magma-chan
are holding him off for now.
I hope they're safe.
Chrome...
I'll make sure your death wasn't in vain.
Ground
Plants
Clothes
Rock
Shut up! I'm not dead!
I haven't been hit once!
Hey, you're alive.
You were so pale, I thought you'd croaked.
I was just catatonic for a
moment because I thought I did.
You used me as a shield after all!
Thanks to the arrow that nearly
hit you, I know where Ukyo is.
Idiot! Wait, Magma!
The arrows are coming from all directions.
He's moving around so we
can't pinpoint his location.
He's taking advantage of the smoke.
Ukyo's bad news.
Meathead Magma's going to be no match.
That way!
Think scientifically.
If he can shoot at me from any direction,
that means Ukyo has a complete
spatial understanding of where I am,
given his insane hearing.
So why did he just miss every shot?
We couldn't have gotten that lucky.
Ukyo isn't trying to kill us.
He's trying to catch us unharmed
so he can interrogate us!
In which case...
The best way to ensure
that none of us get hit is...
Damn it, Chrome.
Where are you?
Bastard!
Screw the rope.
What's going on?
You have no intention of running away.
You raised a white flag on
purpose, too, didn't you?
You did it to save the meathead and
the other person who ran away.
I would have had to shoot the meathead
if we'd waited for the smoke to clear.
I knew it.
He's after information, not my life.
That was impressive decision-making
in the heat of the moment.
You've effectively beaten me.
Oh, yeah?
No!
He's trying to interrogate me!
Well, crap.
I'm not falling for that.
Okay, we're here.
It's you.
You don't need to introduce yourself.
I can tell. You've got a different
aura from the rest.
I don't believe we've met before.
I've been meaning to meet you, Tsukasa!
I like your spirit.
Are you with Senku?
That's right, damn it, I am!
My name is Chrome.
I'm a science user of Ishigami Village!
Someone's coming.
No...
Chrome's been captured
by the Tsukasa Empire!
Well, what's the plan, twig?
Kohaku!
She's not going to help
him by herself, is she?
She's so quick to act.
Stop Kohaku!
But how?
There's no one in this village
who can catch up to Kohaku-chan!
Get back here, lioness.
I'm not a lioness!
Hey, she stopped!
Let me go, Father!
You fool.
What do you hope to do by charging
into enemy territory alone?
Then what do you want to do?
Are we abandoning Chrome?!
If she can't do it on her own,
why not all go together?
Do you mean...
The entire army of the Kingdom
of Science is moving out!
Now that we've isolated Homura the
scout, there's nothing to wait for.
We'll all move out and set up
camp near the Tsukasa Empire.
From there, we'll have a shot
at bringing Chrome back.
I'm too terrified to go
near the Tsukasa Empire!
H-Hey...
Why don't we just hold our
ground here and wait instead?
Winter will end in half a month.
Sit here in wait, and Tsukasa's
army will come to end us.
Yeah.
Offense is the only effective defense.
I know, right?
That's what I thought, too!
Ginro, you...
Are we bringing all your science stuff, too?
Without it, there's a ten billion
percent chance of failure
in getting Chrome back, let alone
of defeating Tsukasa after that.
It's so heavy, though.
There's no way we can carry all this.
What do we do?
That won't be an issue.
Wait, no way!
We're making an automobile!
Tree
Bamboo
Here we go again! Seriously?!
Tire
Iron
Furnace
Steam engine
Honeycomb
Exhilarating, isn't it?
Water wheel
Lathe
Sure, it's exhilarating, but...
Automobile
You're having fun, aren't you, Senku-chan?
Even in these circumstances...
Amazing! Is this a schematic or something?
He's drawing so many circles and triangles
and lines that my eyes are getting tired.
You're pumped, huh, Senku-chan?
Well, yeah, we're building a car.
We're making a giant Mini 4WD model.
All right, let's go with this.
It's ten billion times
more primitive than what
we've been using in our
rockets, but it'll work.
It's a wobbler engine!
We throw this into boiling water.
Honeycomb.
Oh, yeah, honeycomb.
The stuff we went to gather
when we made plastic.
We got attacked by a ton of bees.
It was awful.
Everyone turned into Anpanman.
And then we ended up not
using it for making plastic.
Just awful.
It was just a byproduct of
gathering honey, anyway.
We didn't need it because we ended up
with a simpler shape for our cell phone,
but our parts this time
are going to be complex.
Your hard work will be valuable.
Boil honeycomb into a block,
and you get beeswax.
Candles?
It's the stuff you use to make
crayons and lipstick and stuff.
We're making the engine out of this?
It carves so cleanly on this spinny thing.
A waterwheel lathe...
Basically, a rotating cutter.
We'll make our intricate parts with this.
Is it really going to work with
something as brittle as wax? Really?
Yeah, that won't be one
millimeter of a problem.
We use plaster to form a mold around
the intricate parts we've made from wax.
Then we melt down brass
and pour it into the mold.
Ah, so we aren't actually using wax parts.
I guess that's obvious.
We're tearing down the
furnace that Senku made us.
I know spring is coming soon,
but what are we using it for?
Who knows?
Senku says he wants it.
He sounded so happy as he said,
"This is perfect. Science is all about reuse."
I can picture him saying it just like that.
We're putting the whole
steam engine on the car.
The way it works is simple.
Heat water over the furnace,
and you get steam.
Yeah.
On the end of that, we attach
the part that you built, Kaseki.
The steam pushes it downward.
Think of it like a reverse pump.
Yeah, yeah!
Put that reverse pump on a saucer,
and it'll push, turn, and pull.
That's the wobbler engine.
You guys sure are enjoying this, aren't you?
They've completely forgotten
about their goal of using the car
to send in the whole army to save Chrome.
Don't worry about it.
As far as Tsukasa's men are concerned,
Chrome's just a wimpy villager.
I'm sure they're taking good
care of him as a hostage.
As long as he keeps his
mouth shut, he'll be fine.
We're talking about Chrome.
"As long as he keeps his
mouth shut, he'll be fine"?
We're talking about Chrome.
She said it twice.
Maybe we should pick up the pace.
We're going to be busy!
What is this? What's going on?
The three top men are here.
Ukyo...
Hyoga...
Tsukasa!
Wait, who's the guy with the headband?
Why did you declare that you're a scientist?
If Senku had told you of the situation,
you'd know that you're only
putting yourself at more risk.
That's right, Tsukasa.
I'm here to teach you straight-up,
science-killer Tsukasa.
I'll teach you how cool science is!
Listen up!
First, we have...
colorful flames!
Crap, I messed up.
Completely.
I should have pitched ramen
or cotton candy first.
Would you like to tell us what
brings you, a scientist, here?
Of course, if you don't,
you'll just end up dead.
I can't tell them I brought a cell phone!
I'm actually going to die.
Shit!
Chrome,
it's not that I'm entirely against
a scientific civilization.
In fact, we use fire and tools here, too.
That's science just as much as anything.
But you have no idea how
thoroughly the past world was
tainted by established powers
using weapons of science.
There needs to be restraint.
This beautiful world was purified
by someone, for some purpose,
and Senku is now trying
to tarnish it once again.
This is an opportunity.
Why don't you join us, Chrome-kun?
If you hand us Senku's head, I can
promise you all the flame tests
and science tricks to keep you happy,
and the safety of everyone in the village.
That doesn't sound bad,
compared to dying.
Is that what you thought I'd say?
Hurry up and drop me.
That right?
He was completely unwavering
in his conviction,
even with his death waiting at the bottom.
A bridge?
There's no point in pushing him any further.
He won't turn, neither for carrot nor for stick.
We'll just have to make a
guess as to why he's here.
Ukyo-kun, where did you find him?
That's right.
Ukyo knows we were up to
something at the graveyard.
It won't take long for them to check
it out and find the cell phone.
Damn it, this is bad.
Shit! We're screwed!
Shit!
Chrome-kun was scouting out
the miracle cave by himself.
He must be after the nitric acid.
What's going on?
I mean, I'm saved, but...
Why would you lie to Hyoga and Tsukasa?
Man, what's up with this Ukyo guy?
Is he trying to start a revolution in
the Tsukasa Empire or something?
Now it's just model-building.
We're putting it together
using melted iron and solder.
Wh-What is this thing?!
Now we can go save Chrome!
It's a living iron creature
built from nothing.
Steam engine
acquired!!
A living creature, huh?
It's her first time seeing something
that moves on its own.
Can't blame her for thinking that.
This is it! It's finally here!
The Industrial Revolution!
The Kingdom of Science Railway
steam engine's destination...
is the Tsukasa Empire.
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.